The BINKOD programme is a Tektronix 4014 vector graphics animation of a star being transformed into the text "Binarni kod" (Eng.: 'Binary code'), followed by a text "Od matematike do umjetnosti"  (Eng.: 'From mathematics to art'). The programme was inspired by computer animations done by Tomislav Mikulić on the original hardware during mid 1970-ies in the Multimedia Centre in Zagreb, Croatia. It's output will be used for a documentary/interview intro.

The GitHub file, written in HP2000 Access Time Sharing Basic, is provided for study. Beware: The HP2000 TSB system reaction time for terminal input is to slow for a modern copy-paste operation. Actually you would need to enter the programme copying line by line. (Log into the system and run the programme already there.)


The HP2000 system consists of two HP2100 minicomputers, one being the main processor, and the other the input/output processor. The processors are 16-bit, and each has 32 KiW (i.e. 64 KiB) of central memory. The clock frequency is slightly above 1 MHz. The disk size is 10 MiB. They were produced during the 1970-ies. The original hardware of the Multimedia Centre HP2000 system is preserved by the Croatian School Museum. The emulation on grampus.irb.hr (main processor) and melior.irb.hr (I/O processor) is done with 'simh', and is speedwise very close to the original hardware speed.


The initial points for vectors (in the DATA statements) were generated by OpenOffice Draw, exported in SVG format, and then converted (by a short C programme) to DATA statements.

To see the programme executed on a Tektronix 4014 emulator (the only way to see the animation) on Unix X-windows systems use the following xterm flags:

xterm -t -bg "#002200" -fg "#00e000" -cr "#00ff00" %1024x768 -e telnet melior.irb.hr 2100

You can get the BINKOD programme on the HP2000 by the command: GET-$BINKOD. Use LIST to list it.

Execute the programme with RUN. You can also directly execute the programme with EXE-$BINKOD. Use the Pocket Guide at http://gridvision.irb.hr/MMC-Multimedijski_centar/Software/2000-Access_Basic_Pocket_Guide-1.pdf


Text terminal access to the system:

You can access the HP2000 system emulator through a normal terminal with:

telnet melior.irb.hr 2100

On Windows machines use putty (https://the.earth.li/~sgtatham/putty/latest/w64/putty.exe). Set protocol to telnet, adress to melior.irb.hr and port to 2100

Login onto the machine as instructed by the greeting text. If you would like to have a private account on the machine, please contact sojat@irb.hr.



The Virtual Multimedia Centre of the Croatian School Museum can be reached at: http://grgur.irb.hr/ViMMC/en/. There is HP2000 TSB documentation and other historical things.

The emulation is run on grampus, Intel 2 processor * 1.4GHz Intel Pentium 3, 1GiB RAM, cca 2004, and melior, Sun Enterprise 220R Server, 450MHz UltraSPARC-II, 512MiB, year 1999.

IMPORTANT: If the HP system does not react on your telnet command, close the telnet connection and try again. It happens sometimes.
